---
section: get-involved
lead: true
title: Translation help
authors:
- Anders Pedersen
redirect_from:
  - /contribute/translation-help/
---

The OpenSpending community cares strongly about making the
OpenSpending tool and resources available in as many languages as
possible.

### Translate the OpenSpending site

OpenSpending is used to analyse and visualise spending data from more
than 70 countries. We want to make the OpenSpending site available
across an equally wide range of languages. You can help broaden
OpenSpending's accessibility by translating OpenSpending, which you
can do by means of a simple Transifex-based process.

#### Translating with Transifex

OpenSpending translations are made using Transifex. Transifex is an
open translation platform that provides a simple web interface for
writing translations. Using Transifex makes it easier to translate
collaboratively, and many translation projects have benefitted from
sharing the workload with Transifex. You can find all current and
already completed translations of OpenSpending at our <a
href="https://www.transifex.net/projects/p/openspending">Transifex
site</a>.

The first step to contributing a new OpenSpending translation is to go
to OpenSpending's <a
href="https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/openspending/resource/openspendinguipot/">Transifex
translation</a> site to see if a translation into your language has
already been completed. If your language has already been done, you
can use it as the default language on OpenSpending.org simply by
choosing it in the right corner under "Languages".

#### Adding a new language to Transifex

To add an new language to OpenSpending, go to <a
href="https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/openspending/languages/add/">this
section on Transifex</a>. If you cannot access thisÂ section, <a
href="mailto:openspending@lists.okfn.org?subject=OpenSpending
Transifex access request">send us a request on the OpenSpending
mailing list</a>. If you would like to be added as an administrator so
that you can add other translators, just ping us there as well!

Transifex represents translation projects as sets of "strings" that
must be translated. We have already loaded OpenSpending's strings onto
Transifex, and you are able to go ahead and work on your language by
translating these strings. Remember to invite friends and colleagues
to join, as this makes the process a lot faster.

When you have completed the translation in Transifex, simply <a
href="mailto:openspending-dev@lists.okfn.org">ping the OpenSpending
developer list</a>, and the proper update will be made to the
OpenSpending repo.

### Translate our resources

Whether you're a beginner having your first look at OpenSpending or a
programmer looking for ways to use the OpenSpending API, we have
created a useful guide to get you started with OpenSpending. The <a
href="http://community.openspending.org/help/guide/">OpenSpending
Guide</a> is already available in six languages, but you can help make
it available in more. You can begin translating simply by going to the
OpenSpending Guide manuscript saved in <a
href="https://docs.google.com/a/okfn.org/document/d/1-RhyBc7rFgBW78160BA0mxD6cpVZ-PtfM8QL_WEoPqY/edit#heading=h.79vyyu8n203g">this
GoogleDoc</a> and creating a copy to serve as your translation's base.

The <a
href="http://community.openspending.org/2014/01/the-spending-data-handbook-revised-and-updated/">Spending
Data Handbook</a> is a free book offering easily accessible insights
for civil society organisations about how to analyse, present, and
campaign around spending data. The book was written in 2012 by civil
society members of the OpenSpending community and updated in late
2013. We are working on developing a translation methodology for the
handbook, but its source files are
[available on GitHub](https://github.com/openspending/spending-data-handbook),
and users can simply fork the repo to begin work on a new translation.
